#Trilby

Trilby is an easy way to publish dynamic linked data. Just copy Trilby
to your webserver and point your web browser to it. Fill in a short form
naming your dataset and uploading your RDF file, and it's done!

##Features

* Free Text Search
* Faceted Browsing
* Path-based Query Language
* Geo-search (find things near other things)
* Linked Data - URIs that start with where you installed Trilby
  content-negotiate to HTML, RDF/JSON, and Turtle
* VoID Metadata. 

##Small

Trilby aims to make it very easy to dynamically publish smaller
datasets. Instead of SPARQL or a database server for storing the data, Trilby's
backend, Raffles, uses a file-based storage system. This makes Trilby
very simple to setup, and lets it query over small amounts of data
quickly and efficiently. However it is not an appropriate choice for
medium-to-large datasets.

###How Small?

 So far I have tried with RDF data files of up to
about 30MB, and while queries are still reasonably fast, it does take
several minutes to upload the file to Trilby.

##Installation

1. Use [Composer](http://getcomposer.org) to download Trilby. `composer create-project kwijibo/trilby your-install-dir`
2. Put it where you want on your webserver. (eg, in the web root folder,
   or a sub directory), and make sure your webserver can read and write
to that directory.
3. Point your browser to it.
4. You should be redirected to `/_setup` where you can upload your RDF data
   file, give your dataset a name and license, and choose prefixes for
   your data's vocabularies. You can also pick a password to protect
   your configuration.
5. Save, and you'll see a link to `/` where you can now search and browse
   your data as Linked Data.


##Examples

* [Eighteenth century Texts](http://keithalexander.co.uk/ecco-tcp/) (texts from ECCO TCP)
* [Printed Book Auction Catalogues](http://keithalexander.co.uk/pbac/)

Install Trilby and add your own project to this list!

Thanks!



